---
title: "Going Static"
date: "2014-08-15"
template: post.hbs
---

### Static Pages

A CMS with a database is often unneeded complexity for a simple site.

In this case, a static site generator is the right decision.
It makes the site respond faster, removes complexity, and eliminates the need to run a server.

Before the change, this used to run [Ghost](ghost.org). Ghost is great, and I still really like it,
much more than I ever did WordPress. In fact, I would still recommend Ghost to anyone who does not like static pages so much,
or just prefers a CMS.

### Site Generation and Hosting

This site is now hosted on Amazon S3, and generated by a custom node.js script (using [metalsmith](metalsmith.io)).
Obviously it is open-sourced on [GitHub](https://github.com/alexanderselzer/slzr.co.git).
There's no need to make a public site's source private

Amazon S3 is the best solution for this use case, because there will be a number of images hosted on this site.
GitHub might complain after the repository reaches a certain size, while Amazon will definitely not.

The site generator is very flexible. Making changes to the templates, and to the process of generating HTML
from markdown files, is simple.

Generation of the site is quite speedy, and I expect it to scale well with more content.

The biggest advantage over other site generators, and obviously CMSes, is the transparency of the system.

### Migrating to this Site

Because Ghost isn't WordPress, the migration turned out to be very easy.
It was only needed to customize some of the slugs autogenerated from the titles of the
posts, for everything to match the URLs of the old site.

The server will be set up to redirect from the old domain to here.
